# LBOMD_utility_scripts
A collection of utility scripts for use with the Loughborough MD code

These python scripts are only useful to me and others working with the LBOMD code.


## Installation

Clone the repository to a directory of your choice, and add this directory to your path.

To make the python scripts executable, run

`chmod +x md_*`


## Usage

The scripts can be called directly and passed options on the command line, or imported into other scripts.

### md setup

`md_setup_continue_production.py`  
This function sets options in lbomd.IN so that the md code continues an existing simulation.

`md_setup_damped_md.py`  
This function sets up the input files so that the md code will run a damped MD simulation.

`md_setup_delete_all_output_files.py`  
This function will delete all files output by the MD code.

`md_setup_equilibrate.py`  
Sets options in the input files so that the md code optimises the system using the conjugate gradient method.

`md_setup_fixed_and_thermal_bounds.py  fixed_bound_width  thermal_bound_width`  
This function modifies the lattice.IN file to add a fixed boundary with an inner thermal boundary.

`md_setup_fixed_bounds.py  fixed_bound_width`  
This function modifies the lattice.IN file to add a fixed boundary.

`md_setup_gen_carbon_input_files.py`   
Generates a set of default input files for carbon systems.

`md_setup_gen_input_files.py`   
Generates a set of default input files.

`md_setup_output_failsafe.py output_freq `  
This function sets the output frequency of the MD code for writing the FAILSAFE.DAT.gz file.

`md_setup_output_freq.py output_freq `  
This function sets the output frequency of the MD code for writing the trajectory.xyz.gz files.

`md_setup_production.py`  
This function sets options in lbomd.IN so that the md code begins a normal production run.

`md_setup_simtime.py  simtime`  
Sets the maximum simulation time to "simtime".

`md_setup_thermal_bounds.py  thermal_bound_width`  
This function modifies the lattice.IN file to add a thermal boundary.

`md_setup_thermalise.py  sim_temp  sim_time`   
This function sets options in lbomd.IN and equilibration.IN so that the md code thermalises a system.  User selects the temperature and thermalisation time.

### lattice utility

`md_lattice_bulk_strain.py  filename  strain`  
This function reads a lattice file (filename) and applies a uniform strain in all directions.  The function must be passed the name of the lattice file and the strain (where 1% strain is 1.01 etc).

`md_lattice_info.py  filename`  
This function reads a lattice file (filename) and prints some basic information about the lattice.

`md_lattice_stack_monoclinic_CePO4.py  X Y Z`  
This function reads the lattice.dat file and creates a larger supercell by stacking multiple copies.  The number of cells in x, y, and z can be specified on the command-line, or entered interactively.  This is for a monoclinic system, with beta = 104.18 (the optimised value for CePO4)

`md_lattice_stack.py  X Y Z`  
This function reads the lattice.dat file and creates a larger supercell by stacking multiple copies.  The number of cells in x, y, and z can be specified on the command-line, or entered interactively.  Orthorhombic lattices only.


### lattice generators

`md_setup_gen_random_system.py  density  atom_symbol atom_charge atom_num`  
This function builds a lattice with randomly distributed atoms (with atoms no closer than 1 Angstrom).  User input can be specified on the command-line or entered interactively.  The user sets the density and can pass any number of atom types (ID, charge and number) on the command-line, eg `md_setup_gen_random_system.py 1.9 C_ 0 1000 O_ 0 100 H_ 0 200`  


### md run scripts

`md_run_multi_cgmins.py density  atom_N_id  atom_N_charge  atom_N_num`   
This script quenches multiple lattices with properties read from the command-line.  MD input files and LBOMD.exe are required.
Note, the md code should be compiled with the quench flag activated.

`md_run_multi_cascades_carbon_fixed_and_thermal_bounds.py temperature cascade_energy cascade_time`   
This is a SPECIFIC script that runs multiple cascades FOR CARBON SYSTEMS with a fixed and thermal boundary.  The PKA is automatically set to "C_".  
Input files generated by the `md_setup_gen_carbon_input_files.py` script.  An input lattice.dat and the LBOMD.exe must be present in a sub-directory named: md_input

`md_run_multi_cascades_carbon.py cascade_energy cascade_time`   
This is a SPECIFIC script that runs multiple cascades FOR CARBON SYSTEMS with periodic boundaries.  The PKA is automatically set to "C_".  
Input files generated by the `md_setup_gen_carbon_input_files.py` script.  An input lattice.dat and the LBOMD.exe must be present in a sub-directory named: md_input

`md_run_multi_cascades.py specie_to_hit cascade_energy cascade_time`   
This is a general script that runs multiple cascades with periodic boundaries.  All input files including lattice.dat and LBOMD.exe must be present in a sub-directory named: md_input

`md_run_multi_cgmins_carbon_HPC_farm.py job_no  density_min  density_step  Num_carbon_atoms`   
This script enables many instances of `md_run_multi_cgmins.py` to be farmed out on a HPC.  This script is specific for CARBON systems.  Script requires a 'densitysim_input' directory containing LBOMD.exe compiled with the quench flag activated.


